We talked about the variables
of segmentation.
We have explained what are the ones
that were traditionally used, geographical,
demographic, etc.
We have entered segmentations
based on what you buy, what
is the benefit, when you
buy, etc.
In the end, what you have to do,
and you did it very well, is to
use all the variables, that is,
to study a customer from many
different perspectives.
And if you do all that well, at the end
you have a lot of information that allows
you to adapt, because what you
offer, how you get to it, etc.
What you did is that this seems
very brilliant to me and I would
like to analyze it.
I suggest that we analyze
it first by looking at the
perspectives you used to
study the client.
This is the different variables
of segmentation, which is what we
have called it.
Which were they?
In addition to geographical, demographic
and so on, that is already
over.
What did you study about the client?
A few years ago, I
thought it was basically
what I think all the
brands did.
You as a brand what you identified
was based on the needs
you really had.
You almost looked more
at brand needs than what the
consumer or the market
was really demanding.
Then, from your needs,
what you said is plus with
product for a certain woman
of a certain age,
of a certain social
setting, etc.
You develop the product,
you develop the communication
and when you already had basically
all that directly you put it in front
of a focus rub and you started
getting the feedback.
This is a waste
of time and money,
etc.
Because you realize that you had
developed almost complete
things without really taking
into account what the consumer
was demanding of you.
Why is it?
For at that time, what really
mattered was the brand.
What is the brand wanting
to move?
This is a one-way communication
with the consumer.
What is happening?
That all this has changed.
From the moment you put the customer
as the axis and on what you have
to pivot absolutely nothing,
you have to start determining
who that customer is.
Who is there to buy you?
For whom do you buy?
Where do you shop when
you are online?
What are the communications?
What are the different media
or attention calls that make
you see your product or see
your brand?
Then you have to identify each of
those customers, which in addition
that customer is not a single
customer, but depending on whether
you buy during the week or weekend,
their habit of use or purchase
is completely different.
Whether we are in summer or in winter,
whether you are on vacation or are
working, if you are traveling, with
your way of buying is absolutely
different.
We segment the client according
to who he is, why, with what purpose,
when, for whom, look at what
is interesting, for whom and then
all are very related,
but well, but they are different
variables of study.
When you buy, use, which is also
when you buy, where you buy, which
is usually related and from
all that you identify we are no longer
counting the customer itself,
Borja is not a customer segment
or another, but that Borja can
also be at one time is you buy
for this and at another time
you buy for something else
and from all this you put it
in the analysis and identify
a series of customer segments
and mixed use and what
are they?
Tell us a few things so we
can understand.
From customers who, look, that after
all once you have identified
the customer you have to think that
you have to develop the product,
you have to develop the
communication and you have
to go to sell in those spaces
where really that customer
goes.
That would be once you understand
well what your customer segments
are, what you adapt,
channels, products,
etc, etc, to each of them.
Of course, if you don't understand them
well, it's that you don't adapt anything because
you shoot without knowing, which is what
happened to you at the beginning.
Tell us a few of them.
For example, we identify
different profiles that, said
that, I don't know if we take
as 10, but it could be 10,
15 or a lot and in fact
also can be modified over time.
But, for example, we had the typical
profile we called gifter, which
what I was looking for was to give.
So what you look for when giving because
it is a profile that what you are looking
for is not looking at the price
or good, also depends on who, because
there is also a diversity depending
on whether you want to give,
you make a gift and really get good
or it is the typical gift
that goes to visit a house and
the only thing you want is to
go directly to carry a detail.
The use is very clear.
The use is, in this case, to buy a
perfume with the aim of giving
it to someone.
So, you are looking, you are
going to buy at a certain
distribution and you are buying
with a certain budget and a certain
type of product, which is not the
same, neither budget, nor place,
nor product that we probably identify
as traveler, that is one that goes
super fast, that doesn't want
buying experience, the only
thing you want is to pick
up the product that is in
small sizes so that you get
on the plane and go as fast
as possible.
You adapt everything, product, channel,
everything, absolutely everything.
Because the product, both sizes,
that is, is not the same, another,
for example, another profile we call
the lover, the one who loves the
brand, whatever you do loves him,
wants the storytelling you tell
him, loves him that it is the time
of the shopping experience, looks
for large sizes, doesn't care
the price, has an emotional
bond with the brand.
It's more recurring, isn't it?
Obviously, that product, that consumer
is the one you can sell perfectly
by subscription, because
you know that it will buy
you, yes or yes.
Then, obviously, you have to go adapting
so much that product, for
example, the lover will go to large
sizes, he doesn't care the
price, with which you can offer
him anything, even exclusive
editions, because he
will pay them.
Is it easier to sell online
or not?
Probably, if it is probably a recurring
product.
He who knows it, well, well,
but he likes to go discover.
But he loves to go to the sales
account and have a assisted
sale on the lover, tell him
because this limited edition
has been made, which is what
somehow means size, the design
has been done by a certain
artist, etc.
I love this experience, well.
It values a lot and doesn't matter
to pay, because in fact more even almost
doesn't ask the price, which
is not the same case as probably
the one that comes, what you're
looking for is the offer.
What is the offer?
What is the promotion?
It doesn't matter if it's a fragrance
or another, if it's one size
or another.
What I was looking for is the price,
with which, in that case, anything,
is that it is neither between that
half if it remains, nor the storytelling,
nor where it comes from, nor if
there has been an artist involved.
What you are looking for in this
case is the price.
For example, the young people.
Where do you usually
go to buy?
So, let's say, a channel like a
Sephora, well.
At Sephora you will have to look for
products that are probably not the
classic of all life, but you are looking
for innovations.
Innovations not only at the level
of fragrance, but innovation at
the level of what is how you buy
the product, because there is
no longer assisted sale, even
maybe at the level of formats
that are smaller or that
are much more fun, because
they are like more what they
call gamers.
That is, you like fun, you like
that at the time of the purchase
it is really a playful moment.
Well, I think this case is perfect
to illustrate something we have
taught, that is that you have to
study what we told the client
from very different perspectives
or segment what.
And you have told us several profiles
or various customer segments that
mix for who the profile is, because
sometimes the psychographic
profile, demographic also sometimes,
there will also be age issues,
but many times what weighed
was the use, for what, at
what time, where, etc.
But understanding that we ourselves
have those multiple facets,
I gave the practical case
that happened to me personally.
I remember that January 5, almost
12 at night, that were the typical,
by English cut, I know they
opened until 12 because for
an experience and I missed
as two or three gifts to buy.
At that point, you go to what
we call the rushy, that the only
thing you want is to solve a
problem because you have an
urgency, you have a need, with which
you care little already almost
the product and the variable price,
because the only thing you
want is to solve a problem.
And I have come to buy a product
that in normal conditions,
at another time of my purchase,
I would never have considered
either buying it at the level
of a product, or buying it
at the level of what the price
for which I pay.
That's why I say that we ourselves,
depending on the time we are, have
different hats and we can be lover
at a given time, gifter because
we have another gift time or costly
because what you're looking for
is actually a promotion or something
that's really a ganga or a traveler
that what you're looking
for is a small size because you
need to pick up a plane
and you need to go
fast and take it to you.
And companies that understand that
they are able to reach this level
of segmentation, identifying
profiles, moments, uses, etc.,
is that the information
they have to address that
customer, to use channels,
because you are saying
the rushy.
If you know that there are people
within your customers who
are in this situation, you
can advance through digital
channels, etc.
Well, the possibilities we can't
deepen into this because they are
endless, but what we have to stay
with is that it's valuable
information to understand your customers
from many perspectives
and not.
But what is super important is that we
don't understand it only at the level
of what is product.
At the end of the day, this has to
be a consistency, that's what I
said, solistically it has to be perfect.